On a scale of one to dumb
how does it make you feel?
>> I was confused about this example
with respect to the previous
examples of Rust being smart and
knowing how long a thing lives.
>> So Rust, well I'd say it's
better to do it this way.
There's the possibility of a safe
program versus what Rust can identify
as a safe program.
Since it cannot guarantee that whatever,
if let's pretend that this vector is freed
right after this statement right here.
Then we can't guarantee that that place
in memory on the heap will exist.
So we cannot have references to it.
So our little reference iterator fails.
Let's just pretend it
does live the whole time.
That means Rust is doing
things on your behalf.
Rust doesn't do things on your behalf.
You tell it how long it lives.
So I'm telling it how long it
should live for this statement.
So Rust just does exactly what
you ask it to do at all points.
>> So do you release data then?
>> So normally you don't release data.
You let Rust do it.
Rust does it with the drop commit.
You can technically, so
if you get into async programming,
you'll eventually create a semaphore.
Hey, what's a semaphore?
A semaphore is just like a mutex
with many roads if you will.
And so you actually can on a permit.
You can say, hey, I'm done using this
semaphore and you can call it drop.
Drop is a function,
which does some freeing of values.
You can even implement your own version
of drop if you want to be able to do
different types of dropping or
freeing of memory.
That's, you're getting pretty
fancy pants at that point, but
you can get into it right there.
So in general,
I don't ever mess with that stuff.
I mean, I'm not even sure the use case of
it other than this one semaphore situation
we're actually manually called drop.
>> But most of the time drop is
the one thing that rust does for us.
>> It;s the thing that Rust does for
us now remember it all
goes back to what's that?
Let's see, let me.
Remember this thing that
I was talking about.
How every single thing, whoopsie-daisies.
Every single thing that exists on
the heap has a reference to the stack.
So when the stack item,
the vector, the number,
the pointer, the length, and
the capacity item goes out of scope.
It uses that to drop everything.
And so that's why I talked about that is
because if you think about it that way,
once it's done on the stack, you lose it.
And so in this case, it allocates it and
drops it to look as it does
its operations, drops it.
>> Is the reason that with our first and
second example that holds
out a bit longer is because
those were atomic items
that had like fixed length.
>> The reason why they held out longer
is cause I did something like this.
I did a catamorphic operation, right.
[LAUGH] And so in other words what
I'm doing is I'm doing a collect.
I'm taking it from referring to something
inside of a vector to creating it into its
own memory.
So you can imagine I could do a sum here
and now you don't need that anymore.
You can just do that.
So it's asking me what kind of sum are we?
Are we an i32?
Sure we're an i32.
I need to tell it what
type of number it is.
We could say it's whatever number
you want, but there you go.
We've told it and so
now it created a temporary vector,
created references to that vector
mapped over each item referring inside
the vector, and then sum them all up.
And so at some point,
we've created new pieces of data.
And this new pieces of
the data is now right here.
>> Okay, so the first mute is
a collect that stops after index zero.
>> Say that again?
>> So
when we did with like our items list,
first mute was like a collect
that stopped after index zero.
It's like it did the first index.
And it stopped.
>> Which one are we
talking about right here?
Are we talking about just so
I understand just
because I mean is it the one
where I called first?
>> Yeah.
>> Here.
>> Yeah, this guy.
>> Get rid of 0, or sorry.
>> Yeah, I'm just gonna get rid of that.
There we go.
>> So yeah, mine too.
So, get mute zero is a collect
call that stops after index 0.
>> No, what it is, is just literally
referencing that individual item.
So notice this thing holds onto
the vector that vector lives for
the entirety of this function.
So, these references are allowed to
live for the duration of this function.
That's why it works.
So you couldn't do something like this,
Right here.
Right, you're gonna have some issues
right here because now you're gonna have,
let's see, or should have issues
right here, println items.
There we go.
We created the temporary vector for
a second and then grabbed the first item
out of it but then the vector's gone
because no one holds onto the vector.
So Rust just forces you to have your
values last for the right duration.
And then they can be removed.
Does that make sense?
I mean, get mute zero is effectively
the same thing as this, except for
what comes out of it is not an immutable
reference, but a mutable reference.
And it's safe.
It doesn't blow up if
you access out of bounds